now hamas's political leader isma Han
has made a televised speech in which he
said the group had offered the Israeli
government a way out of the war he also
called on the International Community to
stop supporting Israel in its war on
Gaza the movement has provided a
comprehensive perspective starting by
ending the aggression opening the border
the prisoner swap deal and ending with
the Revival of the political and
diplomatic movement towards the
establishment of an independent state
with Jerusalem as its capital with a
right of
self-determination however Netanyahu and
his gang are misleading his own people
and providing false promises which
cannot and will not be
achieved we remind the countries and
states supporting the Zionist regime
legitimizing the pogrom perpetrated by
them against our people chiefly the
United States of America we remind them
that they must back down on these
obsolete imperialistic policies and
refrain from providing military aid to
this fascist regime we call on them to
stop preventing the international will
aiming at ending the hostilities and
opening the border crossing this is what
we witnessed in the UN General Assembly
to them we say you are standing on the
wrong side of history and the present
the region and Beyond cannot enjoy peace
and stability as long as our established
rights of the Palestinians are not
restored the rights of Freedom
Independence and the return of
refugees well let's disc discuss this
and all the latest developments now with
Abdul Hamid Sam who's a professor of
political science and Middle East
studies at waters's University he is
here in Doha in the studio with us thank
you very much for joining us once again
uh let's start with what um uh isma Han
hamas's political leaders said they're
calling on the International Community
to condemn Israel that seems to be
falling on deaf years because in just 24
hours Israel has bombed the same refugee
camp killing hundreds of people why is
there no no stronger condemnation
of isra when it this is unprecedented in
fact to see a country
obliterating Civ civil civilians day in
and day out killing thousands of
Palestinian civilians children uh human
right activist uh rescue operation
people un staff and yet they did not
condemn this is
unbelievable however I think the Western
countries led by the United States they
see Israel as their proxy uh military
base in the Middle East they they have
to keep it safe because it's an it's a
longterm investment for 70 years they've
been supporting Israel they think if
this base is shaken or weakened then the
Western Hony led by the US will be
falling down after what happened in
Ukraine so they will be most likely not
dictate their terms in Ukraine and this
will happen again so they are supporting
blindly there's certainly been a double
standard when it comes to the treatment
of Ukraine and and what's happening in
Gaza we've seen it we've heard it from
uh European leaders like Ura vand and
from the US as well but right now what
is also happening in these big capitals
around the world is that there seems to
be a shift in public opinion we're
seeing more pro Israel more Pro
Palestine protest in support of people
in Gaza in support of Palestinians is
that not going to resonate with the
leadership in these Western uh
government the long term it well I mean
normally you know they take note of it I
mean I saw the anti-war movement during
the Iraq war with millions of people in
the street but it it takes time I mean
because the two the two uh uh main
powerful uh uh engines are working
against the Palestine the governments
and the media the media is also de
dehumanizing the Palestinians and you
don't find really good uh balance uh
coverage of the war in the western media
so that is another problem the
Palestinian are facing right and the dou
standard as you just said is so obvious
when it comes to Ukraine and Palestine
this is an occupation so the occupier
has the right to fight for to keep the
occupation yet the occupied has no right
to defend themselves and no right to Def
to fight occupation this is
unprecedented I mean all countries in
the world whove been subject to foreign
domination and occupation they were
glorified when they fight their occupier
except the Palestinian they call them
terrorist this is unprecedented ABD
Hamid I wanted to ask you about this
latest move by Jordan a significant one
as we heard from our correspondent uh
Jordan recalling its ambassador from
Israel
um how is this going to make a
difference you think if any on the
ground in Gaza in the occupied West Bank
and what about those Arab countri
countries which normalize relations with
Israel the UAE uh for example will they
follow suit I hope so I hope this is the
first step I think Arab countries were
embarrassed by them by what happened in
Latin America and those countries like
Colombia and Chile and Bolivia and
Bolivia Bolivia even cut off its
relation all together they were
embarrassed and this Movement by Jord is
very important I mean I still believe it
came too late it should have been after
bombarding the hospital the Baptist
hospital for example or early on because
Jordan and Palestine are almost one unit
one people so they are mostly affected
by this war and if anything happens in
Gaza the Israeli will turn their guns
toward the west bank and it could lead
to massive expulsion of Palestinian into
Jordan so Jordan is the most important
um part of this equation in uh rejecting
this Israeli scheme I hope it will be
followed by other countries like Egypt
for example why Egypt doesn't call the
ambassad why Morocco doesn't close the
office there the representative office
why I I don't believe that United Arab
Emirates would do anything of course but
it also will encourage other countries
maybe in Asia in more Latin American but
that is an very important and
significant Step at the right time yeah
so the could come from there thank you
very much ABD Hamid for talking to us of
course we will be speaking to you
throughout the evening here on Al jazer